SUIT flash companion firmware (#15204)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/suit/flash_companion/README.rst

Reviewer: File needs to be added to the ``samples.rst`` file, found in ``nrf/doc/nrf/samples.rst``

Reviewer: Actually, I have just opened a PR to add this in (for SUIT SMP's README doc), so no need to do (otherwise will cause merge conflicts).

Author: Added

Author: It looks like the `nrf/doc/nrf/samples.rst` can only include other `.rst` files inside `doc/nrf`. Otherwise I'm getting a build error. I see that other samples are not included, and yet get rendered.

.. _suit_flash_companion:

SUIT flash companion
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The flash companion application allows the secure domain firmware to access the external memory during the :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

Requirements
************

The application supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

Overview
********

The flash companion implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.

> The secure domain firmware can request from the flash companion to read, erase, or write data to the external memory.

Reviewer 2: Should it be flash companion **sample** or **firmware** in place of flash companion only? If so, then please check throughout the document.

> The application is meant to be booted by the secure domain while performing the firmware update process using the :ref:`SUIT <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample is meant to be booted by the secure domain while performing the firmware update process using the :ref:`SUIT <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.
```

The flash companion firmware is not a stand-alone application, it is intended to be used with the ``nrf54h_suit_sample`` to complete a firmware transfer with external flash.

> The application must be built as a child image of a different sample as it inherits the devicetree configuration from the parent build.

Reviewer 2: Should application >>sample here?

Configuration
*************

|config|

Setup
=====

You can build the application using Sysbuild by enabling the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Kconfig option.

> The memory partition from which the firmware will run can be configured by providing a device tree overlay through Sysbuild.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The memory partition from which the firmware will run can be configured by providing a devicetree overlay through Sysbuild.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is missed.

Author: Done

You should create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory and override the ``zephyr,code-partition``.

> The memory partition must not be used by anything else.

Reviewer 2: Can it be more specific rather than "_anything else_"?

Author: Rephrased to `must not be used by any other firmware image`

The application is booted during the SUIT firmware upgrade process.
See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` user guide to learn how to setup your application to boot and use the flash companion's services during firmware upgrade.

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following configuration option:

.. _SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION:

SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION - Configuration for the firmware
   This option enables the firmware and builds it during the Sysbuild.

Building and running
********************

> The flash companion firmware is not a stand-alone application. To build it, open a different sample or application, such as :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`. Make sure that both the main application and the flash companion support your target platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The flash companion firmware is not a stand-alone application.
To build it, open a different sample or application, such as :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`.
Make sure that both the main application and the flash companion support your target platform.
```

Reviewer 2: RST follows one sentence per line syntax. This seems to be missed.

> Perform the following steps in the main application directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps in the main sample directory:
```

Author: In this case the `main application` does not refer to flash companion sample.

> 1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Sysbuild option

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Sysbuild option.
```

> #. Create :file:`sysbuild/flash_companion.overlay` device tree overlay file and add the following content:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create :file:`sysbuild/flash_companion.overlay` devicetree overlay file and add the following content:
```

Author: done

> 1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Sysbuild option.
> #. Create :file:`sysbuild/flash_companion.overlay` devicetree overlay file and add the following content:
>    a. Create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Sysbuild option.

#. Create :file:`sysbuild/flash_companion.overlay` devicetree overlay file and add the following content:

   a. Create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory:
```

Author: Done

         &cpuapp_rx_partitions {
            /delete-node/ partition@a6000;

            cpuapp_slot0_partition: partition@a6000 {
               reg = <0xa6000 DT_SIZE_K(448)>;
            };

            companion_partition: partition@116000 {
               reg = <0x116000 DT_SIZE_K(64)>;
            };
         };

      In the above example the executable memory partition of the main application (``cpuapp_slot0_partition``) is shrunk to make space for the flash companion executable memory partition (``companion_partition``).

>    #. Apply the same memory partition configuration to the main application device tree overlay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   #. Apply the same memory partition configuration to the main application devicetree overlay.
```

Author: Done

>    #. Enable SPI NOR device tree node. In case of nRF54H20dk you can enable the following node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   #. Enable SPI NOR devicetree node.
      In the case of nRF54H20 DK, you can enable the following node:
```

Reviewer 2: This seems to be missed: 

"In the case of **nRF54H20 DK**, you can enable the following node:"

      .. code-block:: devicetree

         &mx25uw63 {
            status = "okay";
         };

> #. Build the application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Build the sample:
```

   .. code-block:: console

      $ west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild

The flash companion will be built automatically by Sysbuild.

Dependencies
************

> This application uses the following |NCS| libraries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:
```

:orphan:

.. _suit_flash_companion:

SUIT flash companion
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The SUIT flash companion sample allows the secure domain firmware to access the external memory during the :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp

Overview
********

> The flash companion sample implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.

Reviewer 3: Please link to the glossary on the first use of a proper noun.

http://int-ncs-doc.nordicsemi.no/main/html/nrf/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_architecture_cpu.html#secure-domain

> The flash companion sample implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.

Author: Done

> The flash companion sample implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.

Reviewer: We don't have a specific entry in the public NCS glossary for Secure Domain Firmware yet, only Secure domain. (Should SDFW be added, @wbober ?)

@e-rk To link to the [public NCS glossary](https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/glossary.html#), you do the following:
:term:`Secure domain (SecDom)`

> The flash companion sample implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.

Reviewer: Oh, I see it is merged :) no worries, will make a task for TWs to add links to Glossary definitions

> The secure domain firmware can request from the flash companion sample to read, erase, or write data to the external memory.

Author: Done

The sample is meant to be booted by the secure domain while performing the firmware update process using the :ref:`SUIT <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

The flash companion sample is not a stand-alone firmware, it is intended to be used with the ``nrf54h_suit_sample`` to complete a firmware transfer with external flash.

Configuration
*************

|config|

Setup
=====

You can build the sample using Sysbuild by enabling the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Kconfig option.

> The memory partition from which the firmware will run can be configured by providing a devicetree overlay through Sysbuild.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The memory partition where the firmware will be placed can be configured by providing a devicetree overlay through Sysbuild.
```

Configuration options
=====================

Check and configure the following configuration option:

.. _SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION:

SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION - Configuration for the firmware
   This option enables the sample and builds it during the Sysbuild.

Building and running
********************

The flash companion sample is not a stand-alone firmware.
To build it, open a different sample or application, such as :file:`samples/suit/smp_transfer`.
Make sure that both the main application and the flash companion support your target platform.

Perform the following steps in the main application directory:

1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Sysbuild option.

#. Create :file:`sysbuild/flash_companion.overlay` devicetree overlay file and add the following content:

   a. Create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory:

      .. code-block:: devicetree

         &cpuapp_rx_partitions {
            cpuapp_slot0_partition: partition@a6000 {
               reg = <0xa6000 DT_SIZE_K(448)>;
            };

>             companion_partition: partition@116000 {

Reviewer 3: We should say how much space the user needs to reserve.

.. _suit_flash_companion:

SUIT flash companion
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The flash companion application allows the secure domain firmware to access the external memory during the :ref:`Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT) <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

> Application overview

Author: Done

********************

The flash companion implements a device driver for the external flash device and provides an IPC service to the secure domain.
The secure domain firmware can request from the flash companion to read, erase, or write data to the external memory.

The application is meant to be booted by the secure domain while performing the firmware update process using the :ref:`SUIT <ug_nrf54h20_suit_dfu>` firmware upgrade.

> The flash companion firmware is not a stand-alone application.
> The application must be built as a child image of a different sample as it inherits the device tree configuration from the parent build.

Reviewer: I suggest removing the "Related samples" subheading, and instead modify this section by adding:

```suggestion
The flash companion firmware is not a stand-alone application, it is intended to be used with the ``nrf54h_suit_sample`` to complete a firmware transfer with external flash. 
The application must be built as a child image of a different sample as it inherits the devicetree configuration from the parent build.
```

Author: Done and removed Related samples.

Requirements
************

The application supports the following development kit:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :rows: nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp

> 

Author: Moved the section

Configuration
*************

|config|

Setup
=====

You can build the application using sysbuild by enabling the :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_SUIT_BUILD_FLASH_COMPANION` Kconfig option.

> The memory partition from which the firmware will run can be configured by providing a device tree overlay through sysbuild. You should create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory and override the ``zephyr,code-partition``. The memory partition must not be used by anything else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory partition from which the firmware will run can be configured by providing a device tree overlay through Sysbuild.
You should create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory and override the ``zephyr,code-partition``.
The memory partition must not be used by anything else.
```

Author: Done and replaced other occurrences of `sysbuild` to `Sysbuild`.

> The application is booted during SUIT firmware upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application is booted during the SUIT firmware upgrade process.
```

Author: Done

> See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` user guide to learn how to
> setup your application to boot and utilize the flash companion's services during firmware upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_suit_external_memory` user guide to learn how to setup your application to boot and use the flash companion's services during firmware upgrade.
```

Author: Done

   a. Create a dedicated partition in non-volatile memory:

      .. code-block:: devicetree

         &cpuapp_rx_partitions {
            /delete-node/ partition@a6000;

            cpuapp_slot0_partition: partition@a6000 {
               reg = <0xa6000 DT_SIZE_K(448)>;
            };

            companion_partition: partition@116000 {
               reg = <0x116000 DT_SIZE_K(64)>;
            };
         };

      In the above example the executable memory partition of the main application (``cpuapp_slot0_partition``) is shrunk to make space for the flash companion executable memory partition (``companion_partition``).

   #. Apply the same memory partition configuration to the main application device tree overlay.

   #. Enable SPI NOR device tree node. In case of nRF54H20dk you can enable the following node:

      .. code-block:: devicetree

         &mx25uw63 {
            status = "okay";
         };

#. Build the application:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ west build -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp --sysbuild

The flash companion will be built automatically by sysbuild.

> Related samples
> ===============
> 
> * :ref:`nrf54h_suit_sample`

Reviewer: See suggestion for line 20-21

```suggestion
```

Dependencies
************

This application uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :file:`include/sdfw_services/ssf_client.h`
* `zcbor`_

> It uses the following Zephyr libraries:

Author: Done
